



SCM- Github 
Build- maven, ant
TEST - sonarqube, Junit, 
CI - jenkins,  VSTS, 
Artifactory - sonatype Nexus,
CD - docker, Kubernetes, Ansible, 
Monitoring - Nagios
Cloud - Azure

Scripting : powershell intermedate 
			python beginer
			
DevOps: According to me devOps is 
		

Compile - transforms source code written in a programming language (the source  language) into another computer language (the      target language, often  having a binary form known as object code).

build - build has often referred either to the process of converting source code files into standalone software artifact(s) that can be run on a computer, or the result of doing so.

Artifact: When the continuous integration process is triggered by a developer committing code, the first stage of the process compiles the code, runs tests and then assembles the code into binaries. These assembled binaries are known as 'artifacts'.
	
Continous Delivery :	Continuous Delivery is the practice where all changes made to a software project are automatically built, tested and made ready for deployment to users. In practice, once the project has been built and tested it is 'staged' somewhere where it can be manually verified and then made available to users.

Continous Deployment :	Continuous Deployment (the process where code changes are automatically built, tested and deployed without human intervention), typically there is a decision made by a human being to whether or not the software is of sufficient quality or if it is the correct time for the business to make the software available to its users.
			
			
			
Kubernetes - container management technology developed in Google lab(https://www.tutorialspoint.com/kubernetes/kubernetes_architecture.htm)
	Master components :-
		etcd - It stores the configuration information which can be used by each of the nodes in the cluster. It is a high availability key value store that can 	be distributed among multiple nodes.
		
		API Server- Kubernetes is an API server which provides all the operation on cluster using the API. API server implements an interface, which means different tools and libraries can readily communicate with it
		
		Scheduler - this is the mechanism responsible for allocating pods to available nodes. The scheduler is responsible for workload utilization and allocating pod to new node.
		
		Controller Manager - This component is responsible for most of the collectors that regulates the state of cluster and performs a task
		
	Node(Worker) Components	
			Docker - which helps in running the encapsulated application containers in a relatively isolated but lightweight operating environment.
 
